What is Machine Learning?

A computer program is said to learn with experience E, on class of tasks T with performace measure P, 
when its performance P on tasks T improves with experience E

A computer program is said to learn with experience E with respect to some class of tasks T and performance measure P,
if its performance at tasks in T as measured by P improves with E.

Machine learning is a process by which a computer learns without being explicitly programmed.

What are the types of machine learning?
1. Supervised learning
2. Unsupervised learning

What is supervised learning?
When we have labelled data to be fed to a model. 
When a machine learns based on the labeled data provided to it. 
labelled data is used for classification and regression problems

What is Unsupervised learning?
In Unsupervised learning we donot have labelled data. We have data and we let the program/machine to tell us the pattern. Eg- K means clustering

Clusters are formed based on the data fed to the model. 
Unsupervised learning also give classes or it can provide us with classification- but here the classes are not specified by the user.


What is a classification problem?
When you have predefined classes - eg- images of cats, images of dogs, speech emotion recognition- happy, angry
So here the data belongs to one of these classes.
The labelled data helps the model to learn to which of the class data belongs to. 
So that when a new data is fed to the model - it is able to correctly classify it and provide the classification output.
- ie. this is a cat, this is a dog. This emotion in the speech -- happy
Eg of model- SVM classifier, MLP classifier. 

What is regrssion problem?
When we have labelled data, and the data is a continuous value and the target/ label is also a continuous value, 
for eg- house prices based on sq ft. Here we can predict the house price of a new house, if we are provided with latitude, longitude, sq feet. 
Eg of model - linear regression, Xg boost regression


Types of models:
Simple classical models-
1. SVM classifier
2. Linear regression
3. Logistic regression -- is used for classification
4. SVM regressor

Models based on Neural Networks:

Some problems which cannot be classified using classical models -- then we need to stimulate the neural network which are designed based on the human nervous system - 
we have activation function - just like we get trigges in human brain

These are few egs of Neural Network models:
1. ANN- Artificial Neural Network - eg MLP - Multilayer perceptron
2. RNN - Recurrent Neural Network - eg LSTM -Long Short term Memory
3. CNN - Convulutional Neural Network -
4. DNN - Deep Neural Network 

So in DNN, ANN, RNN -- we have activation function
1. Relu - Rectified Linear Unit - giving 0 or 1
2. Softmax- giving a continuous value between [0, x]


Feedforward Neural Network


Reinforcement learning:
model gives an output and model is rewarded for giving correct output

Deep Reinforcement learning: 
Neural network and feedback


How do you measure/ evaluate a model?
RMSE - root mean square error
MSE - mean square error
MAE - mean absolute error

what is training set, validation set, and test set. 
The data which is fed to the model for training - is training set. 
Validation set - for tuning and hypertuning the model
Test set - for testing the accuracy , error of the model 

It is important to understand how well the model is performing. What is the error or differnce between the model output and actual output?
So this is done using a validation set. / test set.

MSE - mean square error - is the difference of square of the mean and the actual output 
RMSE 
Mean Absolute error -


What is AUC?
Area Under the Curve

What is Precision
What is Recall?
what is Accuracy?


How do you clean the data?
Data imputation?
What are categorical features?
What is one hot encoding? What is binary encoding?
how does one hot encoding help?


What is z score?
What is chi square ?
What is kernel?
what is threshhold?

What is the use of linear algebra?
What is the use of matrix?
What is a vector?
What is a scalar?

What is underfitting?
The model has high error on test and the train set. In order to solve underfitting -- we need to add more features to the model.
Model is not trained enough to identify or give a correct output. 
What is overfitting?
Model performs well on the training set, but fails to perform well on the test set. The model is not a generalised one.

What is bias?
What is variance?
What is optimization?
what is linear optimization?
What are various optimization techniques?
What is pulp model?


What is model drift?
What is cocept drift?
What is data drift?


How would you join ? SQl for data science?
Draw plots?
Visualization of the model
